hey what's up this channel has been
hosted some pretty substantive
discussions of the theory and practice
of vegan activism there are several
videos just in the critique of DX e
direct action everywhere I've got at
least one video critiquing Gary Francie
on a and his methods and so on I mean it
adds up to a couple hours in this video
I am going to try to summarize the
positive message to take out of all that
analysis but I'm also going to try to
deepen and broaden the discourse little
bit because it seems to me a very large
number of people coming to this channel
are shocked just shocked at the contrast
that present between political activism
and lifestyle advocacy I mean many
people feel that the many people in the
current generation who spend their time
on the Internet feel that the only valid
form of activism to advance veganism and
ecology is to glorify a certain kind of
lifestyle to convince people that they
will be beautiful and healthy and happy
if they become vegan and primarily to
convince them by portraying themselves
by portraying oneself as tremendously a
beautiful healthy happy vital athletic
etc there's a link below this video to
sort of debate between doctors Steve
best I guess Professor Steve best and
Gary francais on a now it's just a
lecture from Steve best but within the
first ten minutes you'll hear him
contrasting his views to Fran Sione very
directly
I think that part is worth listening to
you may or may not choose to listen to
rest of the video actually it amuses me
somewhat because Steve best commits many
of the same sins that he accuses Gary
fracciones followers of committing
including the sort of facile
misrepresentation of historical episodes
to suit his own argument and this sort
of thing but hey it is demagoguery in
the truest sense of the word and you
know even though I disagree with Steve
vest on probably every single point he
makes I still appreciate that he's
getting up there on stage and you know
presenting his argument fundamentally
for how to save the world because that's
how he sees it right look when I talk
about political activism and I do not
mean this in a shallow way the
fundamental challenge have been
presenting to people here is to ask is
this effect of activism for you um
different all kinds of examples have
come up here but if I have someone
writing me an email saying that he feels
like he's wasting his time by standing
in front of an airport holding up a sign
and shouting slogans at complete
strangers and you know let's say he's an
architect yeah you know what you're
probably wasting your time I'm in
earlier videos talked at great length
but yeah that's what it boils down to
you know what you feel like you're
wasting your time you feel like you
could be doing something more effective
I think you're right and here's why can
out whatever some 30 minute video i
think the discussion that spins out of
that because the discussions are not
simple it really is different if you're
living in a western democracy like
canada or Germany then if you're living
in communist China the type of political
agitation and advocacy and organizing
that you can do you know it's different
if you're living in one place short term
as opposed to long term if you can
actually build a unit it
different if you're working alone or if
you have just five people you can really
cooperate with you know and ultimately
it's different because you are unique
you know you may be an architect you may
be a construction worker you may be an
athlete you may be a bikini model an
incredibly small percentage there is
population of bikini models but some
people are that's your job and that's
your form of advocacy I can sympathize I
can relate to that but not everybody is
a bikini model some people are
university professors and some people
are university students and some people
live in the city and some people live in
the countryside and they've all got to
ask themselves what is the way I can be
effective in agitating for social change
starting from where I'm at now and
looking ahead of the next five years of
my life and wanting to lead a meaningful
life myself and wanting to feel like I'm
making a meaningful difference at one
woman writing to me he was involved with
forestry in Germany so obviously it this
is more rural than urban and a whole
different set of political issues
related to habitat conservation deer
populations wolf populations bear
populations you know really refreshing
to hear about that frankly compared to
the debates I'm getting from people who
just want to promote a vacation on the
beach in Thailand as yes this were the
apogee for effective activism so again
as a kind of wake-up call even though I
do not agree with Steve best I am anti
violence and Steve best argument is he
puts himself as Pro violence I think
it'd be a wake-up call for a lot of the
people on this channel to click on that
link and hear that debate in contrast to
this debate that has lately been hosted
on this channel so look
I really do think that activism can mean
very different things two very different
people in different contexts and
political activism is going to be
connected to how you live your life and
your personal identity as you present it
to others let's say this is building on
an example I mentioned it half a
sentence earlier let's say you own a
small hotel in Thailand and you're
struggling to be a vegan and you're
struggling to get recognition and
respect from the members of the vegan
community around you okay you're a
westerner you're not ethnically tie you
don't really speak the Thai language
you're an english-speaking westerner
living in Thailand what can you do
actually I've had a couple videos really
talking specifically about the political
conditions in Thailand the potential to
make something happen through digital
veganism but here's what I'm saying
right now you have the stability you
have the money you have this small hotel
you're running let's say you talk to an
illustrator you truck you talk to a
publisher or a print shop and you decide
to make a children's book all right
here's my concept for a children's book
it's cold why Little Joe can't eat ice
cream it's a book for children and for
vegan parents to read with their
children and it deals the difficult fact
that if you're if you're raising your
kids vegan if you have a kid growing up
vegan all the other kids eat ice cream
why can't I eat ice cream ice cream
looks harmless whatever it's this white
solid or sorry if it's chocolate it's
brown but it's this you know amorphous
mass if you look at a dead crab on a
plate you can see it's a dead animal you
know has all its moving parts it has
eyes it has legs and so on ice cream in
a bowl with colored sprinkles on it it
doesn't look like a dead animal at all
you can't see the harm it's doing it's
hard for adults to make that connection
it's really hard for children also can
you write a children's book
that just talks about a kid maybe a kid
trying to explain to another kid hey you
know this is why I can't eat ice cream
and maybe you can have beautiful
illustrations in there you're not going
to have gore you're not going to have
pictures of slaughterhouses link maybe
you can sit out the case in a way that a
child could appreciate or that a parent
can sit and read to a child says yeah
you know what it's actually meaningful
to not eat ice cream to not eat cow milk
you know even though when you go to
school it seems like everyone else is
doing it it's an artistic challenge it's
a challenge as an author obvious it's
all going to be written in simple
sentences if you were doing this and you
own a small hotel in Thailand get it
translated print it with English and tie
and you know there's so many ways to
print a book you can do it over the
internet you can do about working with a
publishing house in person doesn't
matter that side of it costs you next to
nothing and you know you could have a
stack of these books at your hotel and
every so often you either sell them to
somebody or give them to somebody he
said yeah yeah you know I took the time
once I took a couple of months I worked
with a talented illustrator and we made
this book and you know over time people
will meet you and they'll remember you
and you'll be the guy who made that book
that becomes part of your identity and
you know in some ways it's fleeting but
in some ways it lasts forever standing
on a sidewalk holding a sign and
shouting I can say both good and bad
about it you know I've said an earlier
video a lot of the effects really are
more like a rally it's more like a
benefit for the participants themselves
than it is changing anything for the
public I'm not going to digress into
talking about street protests here
there's a lot to say about it and I have
already said a lot adds up to a lot of
minutes but yeah you know something
creative something durable something
that shares you know a useful message
with an audience that wants to hear it
that book were talking about it's
unlikely to fall into the hands of
anyone who's a non-vegan or doesn't want
to read it it's not even public
education right this is a form of
activism that has almost zero risk the
only risk would be if the book is a
best-seller you know now you got
problems in your life um but assuming
you sell a small number of copies and
probably you're mostly going to sell
copies through your own social network
through people who find out about it but
boy you know that could be something
really meaningful and positive that
changes your life the changes the way
the people around you regard you as a
vegan as a potential activist and it
could form the basis for more
organization more meaningful connections
of cooperations people around you so
yeah the point of this video was to ask
you to open your mind a bit broaden and
deepen how you think about activism
whether it's the contrast between Steve
best and Gary francia neige or the
contrast between so-called lifestyle
veganism and political action ultimately
yeah we're all struggling to find a form
of activism engagement which is
compatible with our lives and it brings
meaning to our lives short-term and
long-term